Actress Amber Heard has been spared a conviction over a dog-smuggling saga, after she appeared in an Australian court Monday admitting she did not properly declare her two Yorkshire terriers when entering the country. The court magistrate gave Johnny Depp's wife a one-month good behavior bond sentence CNN-affiliate 7 News Australia said. If Heard breaks the bond, she will have to pay a fine of 1,000 Australian dollars ($767). Dogfight over Johnny Depp&#39;s Yorkies Dogfight over Johnny Depp's Yorkies 01:55 She plead guilty to knowingly producing a false or misleading document, while two other charges of illegally importing her dogs, named Pistol and Boo, were dismissed. The celebrity couple arrived in Australia last May aboard a private jet, with Depp in the country to film a "Pirates of the Caribbean" movie. The incident will not go on Heard's record. According to 7 News, the magistrate took into consideration her need to travel for work, and said while the offense was not trivial, she doesn't believe Heard thought she was above the law. Depp was not charged over the incident but accompanied his wife to appear at the Southport Magistrates Court on the Gold Coast where they received a red carpet-like reception. The two were besieged by media although police were on hand to keep things under control. Heard's defense team described the Pistol and Boo "saga" as a "tired, terrible mistake." The actress said she was "distracted" when filling out the immigration forms upon her arrival however the prosecution countered that it was "no excuse" -- Australia's famously strict biosecurity law "applies to everyone." According to 7 News, Heard's assistant was responsible for the dogs' travel arrangements and was dismissed after the incident. Heard also made a video apology that was heard by the court in which she recognized that it is a "serious crime." The illegal import of animals carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a fine of 102,000 Australian dollars ($75,000); the false document charge has a maximum penalty of a year in prison and a fine of 10,200 Australian dollars ($7,500). War on Terrier When celebrity pets go bad 5 photos: When celebrity pets go bad The incident gained international attention when Australian Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce threatened to have the dogs put down.