Everyone has Googled themselves at least once. But have you ever wondered what other personal information could be floating around online that Google doesn’t know about? You read horror stories every day about lives being ruined due to graphic or personal content that gets posted online and the victims usually don't find out until it’s too late. The “Deep Web”, as some are calling it, is a place where Google and other regular search engines can’t find information because it’s protected inside sophisticated databases. But there’s a new website going around that promises to reveal much more then a simple Google search can show you and sometimes the results are shocking. If you like to keep track of what's posted online about you or anyone you know, then you need to check out this site.

Been issued a speeding ticket? Failed to stop at a stop sign? What about your family members? And friends? If you are like most of us, the answer to at least one of those questions is “yes”—the vast majority of us have slipped up at least once or twice.

An innovative new website—Instant Checkmate is now revealing the full “scoop” on millions of Americans but is it going too far?

Instant Checkmate aggregates hundreds of millions of publicly available criminal, traffic, arrest, and personal records and posts them online so they can easily be searched by anyone. Members of the site can literally begin searching within seconds, and are able to check as many records as they like (think: friends, family, neighbors, etc. etc.).

Previously, if you wanted to research someone’s arrest records, you might have had to actually go in to a county court office—in the appropriate county—and formally request information on an individual. This process may have taken days or weeks, or the information might not have been available at all. With websites like Instant Checkmate, however, a background check takes just a few clicks of the mouse, and no more than a minute or two.

While preparing this article I decided to run a quick search on myself to give the service a real-world test. To my dismay, the search revealed several items I’d long forgotten—one of them being for the possession of a fake ID I was (embarrassingly) issued back in college when I was just 18 years old.

"possession of a fake ID I was (embarrassingly) issued back in college when I was just 18 years old"
After searching myself and finding those records, my curiosity was piqued, and I began researching family members—apparently my aunt Susanne isn’t a very good driver, judging by the numerous traffic citations that showed on her record.

One of the most interesting aspects of Instant Checkmate is that it shows not only criminal records, but also more general background information like court records, various types of licenses (FAA, DEA), previous addresses, phone numbers, birthdates, estimated income levels and even satellite imagery of known addresses. The reports can even show you where someone works, how long they've been working there, and even if they went to college or not—it’s really pretty scary just how much information is in these reports.

In addition to giving information on the specific person you search for, the report also includes a scrolling list of “local sex offenders” for whatever region you’ve searched—along with a map plotting out the locations of those offenders. I started perusing the ones that showed up in my report, and I was absolutely blown away when I stumbled upon my junior high school wrestling coach’s mug shot.

"I was absolutely blown away when I stumbled upon my junior high school wrestling coach’s mug shot."
His crime was listed as "Out of state offense,"" so I wasn’t able to get the specifics (you usually can—this was an unusual case), but he was definitely a registered sex offender. Scary stuff.

I would definitely recommend this tool to friends and family. Anyone can start running background checks on Instant Checkmate within a few seconds—just click this link to get started.

If you would like to search someone you know, click here.

Note from the Author

I have to warn you before you start your search, the information you find may be overwhelming and has the potential of changing your view of the search subject forever. Keep this in mind when completing your search.