Have you ever attempted to cast a spell? Are you waiting for an acceptance letter from Hogwarts School, confirming that you are really a wizard?

Well, wait no longer! These dreams can become reality when you visit the Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Studios Hollywood, which opened April 7. Five years in the making, this theme park will enthrall Muggles (humans with no magical ability to the uninitiated) and wizards alike.

A step into Hogsmeade, the all-wizard village recreated by the Universal team, is a step into the Harry Potter books. The experience is completely immersive, bringing to life a world once seen only on the page or screen.

“It’s just like the movies!” says 13-year-old Dawson Goldsmith, a happy visitor from Manhattan Beach, California.

For some of the Harry Potter actors, visiting the Wizarding World is even better than the movies. Just ask James and Oliver Phelps, the actors who played the prankish identical twins in the films.

“Reading the books or watching the films, you can imagine what it would be like to be in the world of Harry Potter,” James Phelps tells me. “Here you can actually live it out.”

Evanna Lynch, the actress who played the loopy Luna Lovegood, agrees. “It’s your day,” she says. It’s about having your own personal experience as a witch or a wizard.

Thrill Rides and Wand Shopping

Upon entering the gates of Hogsmeade, I pass the billowing steam of the Hogwarts Express train and wander into a quaint Scottish hamlet. Musical strains of Hedwig’s theme fill the air. Eager young witches and wizards in Gryffindor and Slytherin robes roam ancient passages. (Gryffindor and Slytherin are two of the four houses of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry).

I stroll down the cobblestone street, window-shopping at Dervish and Banges magical supply store, Filch’s Emporium of Confiscated Goods, and Gladrag’s Wizardwear. In Honeyduke’s sweet shop, I buy a package of Exploding Bonbons. I try out an Extendable Ear in Zonko’s Joke Shop.

Hogwarts Castle looms ahead. Hidden behind Hogwarts’ walls and turrets is the land’s signature ride, the action-packed Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey.The line weaves through the castle, past the Defense Against the Dark Arts classroom, past Dumbledore’s office, and the halls of talking portraits depicting the Hogwarts founders.

Once on the ride, I board an enchanted bench that levitates and follows the characters Harry, Ron, and Hermione on a high-speed adventure as we play the wizarding sport quidditch, escape dragons, and grapple with dementors.

Next stop: Flight of the Hippogriff. On this roller coaster, I climb onto the back of a majestic creature for a wild ride around Hagrid’s hut and pumpkin patch.

My favorite experience is a trip to Ollivanders, a charming shop filled to the ceiling with boxes of wands of every shape, size, and material. With the help of the illustrious Mr. Ollivander himself, some questions about personality and interests, a flick of the wrist, and a few magical mishaps later, one lucky girl (that’s me!) is finally “chosen” by the perfect wand.

I use my interactive wand at eleven magical windows throughout Hogsmeade to open a locked box, cause a ball to float in the air, and even make a plant grow!

The Man Behind the Magic

All aboard! TFK Kid Reporter Mia Felt gets ready to ride the Hogwarts Express.
All aboard! TFK Kid Reporter Mia Felt gets ready to ride the Hogwarts Express.
I detour to the Three Broomsticks tavern to meet with Alan Gilmore, the art director for the theme park and several of the Harry Potter films. We chat about the design of Harry Potter World and enjoy a sip of butterbeer, a creamy, butterscotch-like refresher.

Gilmore tells me the entire attraction is detailed to the last inch, even down to the trash cans. Everything is handmade. The crew wanted to make park visitors feel as if they are in the films themselves. Prior to starting construction, his team visited and studied real buildings, castles, and other sites where the movies were filmed.

“Everything you see is from the real world, but it is a heightened reality,” he explains. “Buildings are taller, quirkier.”

If guests look closely, they will see original film props, including desks and chalkboards from the Dark Arts classroom, Cho Chang’s Yule Ball dress, and Hagrid’s motorbike.

Gilmore’s life experiences prepared him well for the job of art director for the Wizarding World. Growing up in Ireland, he spent a lot of time playing in castles and graveyards. He studied architecture in college and eventually directed his skills to art design.

As we sit at the back of the Three Broomsticks, I ask if he has any advice for kids who visit the theme park.

Read the books first, then see the films, then come here,” he says.

But even if you are unfamiliar with the books and movies, you can still enjoy the Wizarding World. “I hope it will bring everyone into the world of Harry Potter, and make them fans,” he says.

I highly recommend a visit to Hogwarts’ realm to any Muggle. Wizards, I suggest you apparate there immediately.