The Rio Olympics are less than 100 days away and it seems South Korean athletes are taking no chances when it comes to the threat of contracting the Zika virus.

South Korea's stars will wear tracksuits which have been infused with insect repellant designed to keep mosquitoes away, as well as long pants and blazers for the opening and closing ceremonies.
South Korea unveiled its new Olympic fashion range with 100 days until the Rio Games.
South Korea unveiled its new Olympic fashion range with 100 days until the Rio Games.
Athletes are not allowed to have their actual kit infused but will be able to spray themselves with repellent before competing.
The World Health Organization declared Zika a global public health emergency three months ago. The virus has been shown to cause microcephaly in babies and is linked to some cases of muscle-weakening disease Guillain-Barré syndrome in adults. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has told pregnant women to stay away from areas where Zika is prevalent and has issued guidelines for those who may wish to become pregnant.
Other nations, such as Germany, have yet to adopt South Korea's approach, instead taking a more casual approach to leisurewear.
Germany&#39;s athletes show off what they&#39;ll be wearing around the village.
Germany's athletes show off what they'll be wearing around the village.
Team USA marked 100 days to go with a rather low key ceremony.
 Paralympic equestrian star Sydney Collier poses with samba dancers during Team USA&#39;s Road to Rio Tour event.
Paralympic equestrian star Sydney Collier poses with samba dancers during Team USA's Road to Rio Tour event.
Australia unveiled its new range of Olympic uniform in Sydney with the traditional green and gold featuring heavily.
Australia&#39;s athletes will wear this outfit for the opening ceremony in Rio.
Australia's athletes will wear this outfit for the opening ceremony in Rio.
Great Britain, which hosted the Games in 2012, launched its new kit with the help of world and Olympic heptathlon champion Jessica Ennis-Hill.
Stella McCartney designed Great Britain&#39;s outfits for the Games.
Stella McCartney designed Great Britain's outfits for the Games.
The Olympics run from August 5-21 with the Paralympics starting on September 7 and concluding on September 18th.