Radiohead's "disappearance" from the Internet has proved short-lived, with the band pleasing fans by releasing a new song in a video on YouTube.

The acclaimed five-piece from Oxford, England, caused a stir in recent days by quietly erasing its Internet presence, fueling speculation that the release of the group's ninth studio album was imminent.
The stop-motion video from director Chris Hopewell is for a song called "Burn The Witch."
The video and two clips posted earlier Tuesday will lend further credence to rumors among the group's devoted fans that the new album also is called "Burn The Witch" -- and will be released shortly.

The band deleted all content from its social media accounts and website Sunday, then began posting again Tuesday, releasing two short video clips on Instagram.
Billboard reported the song went to No. 1 on its Trending 140 chart.
Radiohead disappears from Internet, fuels album rumors
'Burn the Witch'
Fans in the United Kingdom recently reported receiving mysterious leaflets in the mail from the band, replete with the term "Burn The Witch" and an embossed band logo.
Text on the leaflets reads: "Sing a song of sixpence that goes / Burn the Witch / We know where you live."
"Umm, I just got this in the post from Radiohead. Is the new album called Burn The Witch?" tweeted Niall Doherty, reviews editor at music magazine Q.

Radiohead released its last studio album, "King of Limbs," five years ago. The group will begin a world tour this month with two dates in Amsterdam, Netherlands.
Unorthodox releases
The band has a track record of releasing its new albums in innovative ways.
Vocalist Thom Yorke personally handed out copied of a Radiohead "newspaper" at a London record store to promote "King of Limbs" in 2011.
Its predecessor, "In Rainbows," was released in 2007 as a "pay what you want" download, the first such experiment for a major musical act.
Yorke released his "Tomorrow's Modern Boxes" solo project independently through a BitTorrent bundle in 2014.
The promise of a long-awaited new release from the group -- hailed as one of the great modern rock acts -- has prompted a buzz among the group's famously adoring fans in recent days, with actor Elijah Wood one of thousands to tweet the phrase "Burn The Witch."